# Problem

The most common mechanism of injury in the elderly population is falling. About 30%-50% of falls in the elderly result in minor injuries, including bruises, abrasions, and lacerations, but an estimated 10% of all falls in seniors cause major injuries, including intracranial injuries (ICIs) and fractures. One per cent of all falls in this population result in hip fractures, which pose a significant risk for post fall morbidity and mortality. In addition, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), between 2006 and 2010, falls were the leading cause of traumatic brain injury-related deaths in persons aged 65 or older. Falling is common for older people and can have dangerous consequences for the elderly. Falls can cause serious harm and in some cases, they may even prove fatal. Falls in seniors happen more frequently than you think. According to the Health Promotion Board in Singapore, about one-third of elderly Singaporeans aged 60 and above have fallen multiple times. Many falls happen in the home. Slippery floors, especially in the bathroom, can all make it too easy for the elderly to slip.

Falling can have dire consequences for the elderly. When an elderly person falls, it can cause minor injuries ranging from scratches, bruises and abrasions, to more serious harm such as head trauma and fractures. Fractures occur most commonly in the hip but can affect the spine, arms, ankles or legs. “Many falls happen in the home. Clutter, poor lighting, loose mats and cables, as well as slippery floors, especially in the bathroom, can all make it too easy for the elderly to trip,” says Ms Heng Wan Xuan, Physiotherapist at the Falls and Mobility Clinic, Department of Physiotherapy, Singapore General Hospital (SGH), a member of the SingHealth group. Aside from safety hazards found in the home, factors such as muscle weakness and joint problems, poor balance and slow reaction time, poor vision, often due to eye cataracts and taking medicine that may cause drowsiness and dizziness all increase the risk of falls in the elderly. According to the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons, 20 per cent of elderly hip fracture patients die within one year after their fall,50 per cent become dependent on a cane or walker and 40 per cent will need to be admitted to a nursing home due to an inability to perform daily activities such as eating, bathing, getting dressed and toileting.Only 25 per cent of older adults who suffer a hip fracture from a fall actually make a complete recovery.

But apart from the physical injuries, falls in the elderly can also have a psychological impact. This includes loss of confidence when an elderly person becomes too dependent on help to get around. Additionally, they may also develop a fear of falling that could lead to withdrawal from social activities preventing them from visiting their friends and relatives, attending social gatherings or going on trips. Therefore, they can face loneliness and ultimately depression

# Solution
Our solution to the problem is a device that has the ability to detect falls and heart attacks and alert a caretaker.

# Sources
[Source 1](https://www.healthxchange.sg/seniors/ageing-concerns/fall-prevention-elderly)\
[Source 2](https://reference.medscape.com/features/slideshow/falls-in-the-elderly)